Add transactions guide (#31)
wealthkernel/api-documentation-guides: docs/transactions/Basics.md

# Transactions

A transaction represents a movement of cash or holdings to/from a portfolio. When the transaction refers to a cash movement it will only contain a consideration. If the transaction is related to securities trading details about the security, price and quantity could also be included.

The status of every order will first be `Matched` before moving to `Settled` or `Cancelled`.

# Type of Transactions

**Adjustment**: Used in order to rectify errors.

> **Buy**: Represents the purchase of a security. It will include the secutity ISIN code, the quantity and price of the trade and any other charges applied to the trade if any. When the trade has executed the transaction remains in `Matched` state until it is `Settled`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Buy**: Represents the purchase of a security. It will include the security ISIN code, the quantity and price of the trade and any other charges applied to the trade if any. When the trade has executed the transaction remains in `Matched` state until it is `Settled`.
```

> **Sell**: Represents the sale of a security. It will include the secutity ISIN code, the quantity and price of the trade and any other charges applied to the trade if any. When the trade has executed the transaction remains in `Matched` state until it is `Settled`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Sell**: Represents the sale of a security. It will include the security ISIN code, the quantity and price of the trade and any other charges applied to the trade if any. When the trade has executed the transaction remains in `Matched` state until it is `Settled`.
```

# Transactions

A transaction represents a movement of cash or holdings to/from a portfolio. When the transaction refers to a cash movement it will only contain a consideration. If the transaction is related to securities trading details about the security, price and quantity could also be included.

> The status of every order will first be “Matched” before moving to “Settled” or “Cancelled”.

Reviewer: Just a tiny thing, but don't we normally use backticks to make it show as a code block for statuses?

# Type of Transactions

**Adjustment**: Used in order to rectify errors.

> **Buy**: Represents the buying of a security. It will include the secutity ISIN code, the quantity and price of the trade and any other charges applied to the trade if any. When the trade has executed the transaction remains in matched state until it is settled

Reviewer: Just a suggestion, but there's a missing full stop as well
```suggestion
**Buy**: Represents the purchase of a security. It will include the secutity ISIN code, the quantity and price of the trade and any other charges applied to the trade if any. When the trade has executed the transaction remains in matched state until it is settled.
```

> **Sell**: Represents the selling of a security. It will include the secutity ISIN code, the quantity and price of the trade and any other charges applied to the trade if any. When the trade has executed the transaction remains in matched state until it is settled

Reviewer: Same here
```suggestion
**Sell**: Represents the sale of a security. It will include the secutity ISIN code, the quantity and price of the trade and any other charges applied to the trade if any. When the trade has executed the transaction remains in matched state until it is settled.
```

> **Deposit**: A deposit made directly from the client’s bank account to us.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Deposit**: A deposit made directly from the client’s bank account to WealthKernel.
```

**Withdrawal**: A payment out into the client’s bank account processed upon request.

> **Charge**: It is related to custody fees deducted in each portfolio as per instruction of each tenant.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Charge**: Represents custody fees taken.
```

> **Consolidation In/Out**: It's used to reflect some corporate actions operations.

Reviewer 2: IMO we can drop the pronoun usage in this guide. e.g.

```suggestion
**Consolidation In/Out**: Used to reflect some corporate action operations.
```

> **Dividend**: It represent the payment of a dividend in cash, includes the secutity ISIN code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Dividend**: Represents the payment of a dividend in cash.
```

If we want to detail the fields that are set with each type we should have a consistent way of describing that IMO.

**FxIn/FxOut**: It's used to book exchange operations, for example for dividend payments in a foreign currency.

> **Cash Transfer IN/OUT**: It is used to book cash transfers coming from the outside, such as ISA transfers for example.

Reviewer 2: What does "the outside" mean to a prospect reading this documentation?

**Internal Cash Transfer IN/OUT**: It is used to book cash transfers between accounts (GIA <> ISA <> JISA) and portfolios inside WealthKernel.

> **Internal Transfer IN/OUT**: Used to book a units or stocks transfer between portfolios held with WealthKernel. For example: from one GIA to another under the same party. 

Reviewer 2: These are similar type but use different language in their explanation e.g. portfolios inside WealthKernel vs portfolios held with WealthKernel

**Transfer IN/OUT**: Used to book a units or stocks transfer between a portfolio within WealthKernel and a portfolio held with another broker/provider or vice versa. 

**Redemption**: Used for repayments of principal and interests owed of debts instruments.

## Timestamp and Updated At

> The “Timestamp” is the time and date the transaction was initially created and this will not change, whereas the “Updated At” is the time and date the transaction data was last updated. I.e. A change of status from “matched” to “settled” or some other manual update if it was mispriced or similar. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The “Timestamp” is the time and date the transaction was initially created and this will not change, whereas the “Updated At” is the time and date the transaction data was last updated. For example, a change of status from “matched” to “settled” or some other manual update if it was mispriced or similar. 
```

> The date and time in the “Timestamp” and in the “Updated At” are all in the UTC time zone

Reviewer: Sorry I didn't mean to include the first part of this, just the bit where we say it's in UTC

> The date and time in the “Timestamp” and in the “Updated At” are all in the UTC time zone

Author: Done
Thanks

## Settled On

> The “Settled On” is the date at which the transaction will be settled.

Reviewer: Same here with property names, I thought we normally use `settledOn` and `updatedAt` to match the model properties, and use backticks to make them display as code
